
design a sorting algorithm for sorting the elements in nlogn time using a heap

print the k-largest elements in an array of size n

design an algorithm that takes a set of files containing stock trade information in sorted order and writes a single file containing the lines appearing in the individual files sorted in sorted order. The algorithm should use very little RAM ideally of the order of a few kilo bytes

design an efficient algorithm for soring k-increasing-decreasing array. you are given another array of the same size that the result should be written to, and you can use O(k) additional storage

how would you implement a stack API using a heap and a queue API using a heap

Implement a text compression algorithm (huffman's coding)

how would you compute the k-stars which are closest to the earth? you only have a few mega bytes of RAM

design an O(nlogk) time algorithm that reads a sequence of n elements and for each element starting from the k-th element, prints the k-th largest element read up to that point. the length of the sequence is not known in advance. your algorithm cannot use more than O(k) additional storage

the input consists of a very long sequence of numbers. each number is atmost k positions away from its correctly sorted position. design an algorithm that outputs the numbers in the correct order and uses O(k) storage, independent of the number elements processed

design an O(n) time algorithm to computer the k elements closes to the median of an array A

design an algorithm for computing the running median of a sequence. the time complexity should be O(logn) per element read in, where n is the number of values read in up to that element

design an algorithm for efficiently computing the k smallest real numbers of the form a + b * sqroot(2) for non-negative integers a and b

design an O(k) time algorithm for determining whether the k-th largest element in a max-heap is smaller than, equal to, or larger than a given x. The max-heap is represented using an array. Your algorithm's time complexity should be independent of the number of elements in the max-heap and may use O(k) additional storage. It cannot make any changes to the max-heap, and should handle the possibility of duplicate entries
