
Given two positive integers x and y, how would 
you compute x/y if the only operators you can use are addition, subtraction and multiplication?

write a function that multiples two unsigned positive integers. The only operators you are allowed to use are assignment and the bitwise operators, 
i.e., >>, <<, |, &, ~ and ^. (in particular you cannot use increment and decrement). you can use loops, conditionals and functions that your write yourself, other functions are allowed

Let R and S be xy-aligned rectangles in the cartesian plane. write a function which tests if R and S have a non-empty intersection. if the intersection is nonempty, return the rectangel formed by their intersection


given four points in the plane, how would you check if they are the vertices of an xy-aligned rectangle?


how would you check if two rectangles, not necessarily xy-aligned intersect?

write a function that takes a single positive integer argument n (where n >= 2) 
and efficiently computes and prints all the primes between 1 and n

design an algorithm for computing the GCD of two numbers without using multiplication, division and modulus operators


given an array of A of integers. can you write an encode function that the array as input and returns a string representing the concatenation of the Elias gamma codes for (A[0], A[1], ..., A[n-1])
in that order, and a decode function that takes a string s assumed to be generated by the encode function, and returns the array that was passed to the encode function


write a function that converts Excel column ids to the corresponding integer, with "A" corresponding to 1. The function signature is int ssDecodeColID(string); you may ignore error conditions, such as col containing characters outside of [A,Z]. How would you test your code?

write a function that performs base conversion. the input is an integer of base b1, a string s, representing an integer x in base b1, and another integer of base b2, the output is the string representing the integer x in base b2. Assume,  2 < b1,b2 <= 16 Use "A" to represent 10, "B" for 11, ...... , and "F" for 15

Implement string to integer inter-conversion functions. Use the following function signatures: String intToString(int x) and int stringToInt(String s)

implement a method that takes as input a set S of distinct elements and prints the power set of S. print the subsets one per line, with elements seperated by commas

print all subsets of size k of {1,2,3,....,n}

suppose x E of Sk, and k is not 0 or 64. How would you compute y E of Sk for all {x} such that | y-x | is maximum?

write a function that takes a 64bit, 32bit, 16bit and 8bit integer and reverses the bits in O(1) time. 


A 64-bit integer can be viewed as an array of 64 bits, with the bit at index 0 corresponding to the least significant bit, and the bit at index 63 corresponding to the most significant bit. Implement code that takes as input a 64-bit integer x and swaps the bits at indices i and j

find the parity of a 8bit, 16bit, 32bit and 64bit number in O(1) time

find the number of set bits in a 8bit, 16bit, 32bit and 64bit number in O(1) time
